mind your decisions i'm presh tallwalker
five congruent circles are placed with
their centers equally spaced
a line is drawn from the bottom of the
first circle
to the top of the fifth circle
the area underneath the line and
overlapping the circles
is shown in yellow if the yellow region
has an area equal to 40
and the overlap of two circles has an
area equal to five
what is the area of a single circle
equal to
i thank joe m for the suggestion
pause the video if you'd like to give
this problem a try and when you're ready
keep watching to learn how to solve this
problem
[Music]
there are many ways to solve the problem
and i will illustrate just one method
notice the yellow region is exactly
equal
to half of the total area if we take two
of these yellow regions
we will get the total area of the shape
recalling the area of the yellow region
is equal to 40
the total area of the shape will be
equal to 2 times 40
which is equal to 80. this total area
is also equal to 5 times the area of a
single circle
minus four times the area of the overlap
between two circles recalling the
overlapping region has an area equal to
five
we can substitute in we then can
methodically solve this equation
for the area of a single circle five
times the area of a single circle will
be equal to one hundred
so the area of a single circle will be
equal to twenty
and that's our answer thanks for making
us one of the best channels on youtube
see you next episode of mind your
decisions where we solve the world's
problems
one video at a time
[Music]
you